---
title: "Tetramer protein complex interface residue pairs prediction with LSTM combined with graph representations"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/2020-11-BBA
excerpt: 'This paper is about tetramer protein complex interface residue pairs prediction.'
date: 2020-11-01
venue: 'Biochimica et Biophysica Acta (BBA)-Proteins and Proteomics'
paperurl: 'https://doi.org/10.1016/j.bbapap.2020.140504'
citation: 'Sun D, Gong X. Tetramer protein complex interface residue pairs prediction with LSTM combined with graph representations[J].'
---

**Abstract:**
Motivation: Protein-protein interactions are important for many biological processes. Theoretical understanding of the structurally determining factors of interaction sites will help to understand the underlying mechanism of protein-protein interactions. Taking advantage of advanced mathematical methods to correctly predict interaction sites will be useful. Although some previous studies have been devoted to the interaction interface of protein monomer and the interface residues between chains of protein dimers, very few studies about the interface residues prediction of protein multimers, including trimers, tetramer and even more monomers in a large protein complex. As we all know, a large number of proteins function with the form of multibody protein complexes. And the complexity of the protein multimers structure causes the diﬃculty of interface residues prediction on them. So, we hope to build a method for the prediction of protein tetramer interface residue pairs. Results: Here, we developed a new deep network based on LSTM network combining with graph to predict protein tetramers interaction interface residue pairs. On account of the protein structure data is not the same as the image or video data which is well-arranged matrices, namely the Euclidean Structure mentioned in many researches. Because the Non-Euclidean Structure data can't keep the translation invariance, and we hope to extract some spatial features from this kind of data applying on deep learning, an algorithm combining with graph was developed to predict the interface residue pairs of protein interactions based on a topological graph building a relationship between vertexes and edges in graph theory combining multilayer Long Short-Term Memory network. First, selecting the training and test samples from the Protein Data Bank, and then extracting the physicochemical property features and the geometric features of surface residue associated with interfacial properties. Subsequently, we transform the protein multimers data to topological graphs and predict protein interaction interface residue pairs using the model. In addition, diﬀerent types of evaluation indicators veriﬁed its validity.

[Download paper here](https://sundw-818.github.io/sundw.github.io/files/file1.pdf)

Recommended citation: Sun D, Gong X. Tetramer protein complex interface residue pairs prediction with LSTM combined with graph representations[J]. <i>Biochimica et Biophysica Acta (BBA)-Proteins and Proteomics</i>, 2020, 1868(11): 140504.
